## title: \" 1. 51% for issues\"

Creating comprehensive bylaws for the \*\*United Progress Party
(UPP)\*\* involves outlining the foundational rules and procedures that
will govern the party's operations, leadership elections, membership,
meetings, and more. Below is a structured framework for the UPP bylaws,
tailored to reflect its progressive left-wing values.

\-\--

\## \*\*Bylaws of the United Progress Party (UPP)\*\*

\### \*\*Article I: Name and Purpose\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Name\*\*

\- The name of the organization shall be the \*\*United Progress Party
(UPP)\*\*.

\*\*Section 2: Purpose\*\*

\- The UPP is dedicated to promoting progressive values, social justice,
economic equality, environmental sustainability, and inclusive
governance. The party aims to empower marginalized communities, advocate
for comprehensive policy reforms, and foster democratic participation at
all levels of government.

\### \*\*Article II: Membership\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Eligibility\*\*

\- Membership is open to all individuals who support the UPP's mission
and adhere to its principles, regardless of race, gender, sexual
orientation, religion, or socioeconomic status.

\*\*Section 2: Categories of Membership\*\*

\- \*\*Regular Members\*\*: Individuals who actively participate in
party activities and have voting rights.

\- \*\*Associate Members\*\*: Individuals who support the party but may
not participate actively in all activities. They do not have voting
rights.

\- \*\*Honorary Members\*\*: Individuals who have made significant
contributions to the party or its causes, as determined by the National
Committee.

\*\*Section 3: Admission\*\*

\- Prospective members must complete an application process, including
agreeing to the party's principles and paying any required dues.

\*\*Section 4: Rights and Responsibilities\*\*

\- Members have the right to vote in party elections, run for office
within the party, and participate in party meetings and committees.

\- Members are expected to uphold the party's values, attend meetings,
and contribute to party initiatives.

\*\*Section 5: Termination of Membership\*\*

\- Membership may be terminated by voluntary resignation, non-payment of
dues, or expulsion due to actions contrary to party principles, as
determined by the National Committee.

\### \*\*Article III: Governance Structure\*\*

\*\*Section 1: National Committee\*\*

\- The National Committee (NC) is the highest governing body of the UPP,
responsible for overarching strategy, policy development, and
organizational oversight.

\*\*Composition:\*\*

\- Chairperson

\- Vice Chairperson

\- Secretary

\- Treasurer

\- Representatives from each state

\- Committee Chairs (e.g., Policy, Finance, Outreach)

\*\*Section 2: Executive Committee\*\*

\- The Executive Committee (EC) handles day-to-day operations and
implements decisions made by the National Committee.

\*\*Composition:\*\*

\- Chairperson

\- Vice Chairperson

\- Secretary

\- Treasurer

\- Executive Members as designated by the National Committee

\*\*Section 3: State and Local Committees\*\*

\- Each state and local branch has its own committee structure, aligned
with the National Committee's guidelines, to address regional issues and
mobilize grassroots support.

\### \*\*Article IV: Leadership Elections\*\*

\*\*Section 1: National Leadership Elections\*\*

\- Elections for National Committee positions are held every two years
during the National Convention.

\- All Regular Members are eligible to vote and run for office, provided
they meet any additional criteria set forth by the bylaws.

\*\*Section 2: State and Local Leadership Elections\*\*

\- State and local leaders are elected according to procedures defined
in the respective state and local bylaws, ensuring alignment with the
National Committee's regulations.

\*\*Section 3: Nomination Process\*\*

\- Candidates must be nominated by a slate of supporters or through a
petition signed by a specified number of members.

\- The nomination period and requirements are established by the
National Committee and communicated to all members in advance.

\*\*Section 4: Voting Procedures\*\*

\- Voting is conducted using a ranked-choice voting system to ensure
majority support for elected leaders.

\- Elections may be held in person, by mail, or electronically, ensuring
accessibility for all members.

\### \*\*Article V: Meetings\*\*

\*\*Section 1: National Convention\*\*

\- The UPP holds a National Convention biennially to conduct elections,
adopt the party platform, and address key issues.

\- The location and dates are determined by the National Committee and
announced at least six months in advance.

\*\*Section 2: Regular Meetings\*\*

\- The National Committee meets quarterly to discuss and decide on party
matters.

\- State and local committees hold regular meetings as defined by their
own bylaws.

\*\*Section 3: Special Meetings\*\*

\- Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or a majority of
the National Committee members as needed.

\- Notice of special meetings must be provided to all members at least
two weeks in advance.

\*\*Section 4: Quorum and Voting\*\*

\- A quorum for meetings is defined as a majority of the voting members
present.

\- Decisions are made by a simple majority vote unless otherwise
specified in the bylaws.

\### \*\*Article VI: Committees\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Standing Committees\*\*

\- The UPP establishes standing committees to focus on specific areas,
including but not limited to:

\- \*\*Policy Committee\*\*: Develops and reviews the party platform and
policy proposals.

\- \*\*Finance Committee\*\*: Manages fundraising, budgeting, and
financial reporting.

\- \*\*Outreach and Engagement Committee\*\*: Coordinates outreach
efforts, membership drives, and public relations.

\- \*\*Election Committee\*\*: Oversees candidate selection, campaign
support, and electoral strategy.

\- \*\*Diversity and Inclusion Committee\*\*: Ensures the party promotes
and upholds diversity and inclusive practices.

\*\*Section 2: Ad Hoc Committees\*\*

\- The National Committee may establish ad hoc committees to address
specific issues or projects as needed.

\*\*Section 3: Committee Leadership\*\*

\- Each committee is led by a Chairperson elected by the committee
members.

\- Committee members are appointed based on expertise, interest, and
commitment to the committee's objectives.

\### \*\*Article VII: Party Platform Development\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Platform Creation\*\*

\- The Policy Committee is responsible for drafting and updating the
party platform, ensuring it reflects the progressive values and
priorities of the UPP.

\*\*Section 2: Member Input\*\*

\- The platform development process includes soliciting input from
members through surveys, forums, and discussions to ensure broad
participation and representation.

\*\*Section 3: Adoption\*\*

\- The proposed platform is presented at the National Convention for
review, debate, and adoption by a majority vote of the attending
members.

\### \*\*Article VIII: Finances\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Fiscal Year\*\*

\- The UPP's fiscal year runs from January 1 to December 31.

\*\*Section 2: Budget\*\*

\- The Finance Committee prepares an annual budget, which must be
approved by the National Committee.

\*\*Section 3: Dues and Fundraising\*\*

\- Membership dues are set annually by the National Committee.

\- The party engages in various fundraising activities, adhering to all
relevant laws and ethical standards.

\*\*Section 4: Financial Oversight\*\*

\- Regular financial reports are provided to the National Committee and
made available to members upon request.

\- An independent audit is conducted annually to ensure financial
transparency and accountability.

\### \*\*Article IX: Conflict of Interest and Ethics\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Conflict of Interest Policy\*\*

\- Members in leadership positions must disclose any potential conflicts
of interest and recuse themselves from related decisions.

\*\*Section 2: Code of Conduct\*\*

\- All members are expected to conduct themselves with integrity,
respect, and professionalism.

\- Harassment, discrimination, or unethical behavior is prohibited and
may result in disciplinary action, including expulsion.

\*\*Section 3: Ethics Committee\*\*

\- An Ethics Committee is established to handle violations of the Code
of Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy.

\- The committee investigates allegations, holds hearings, and
recommends appropriate actions to the National Committee.

\### \*\*Article X: Amendments\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Proposal of Amendments\*\*

\- Amendments to the bylaws may be proposed by any Regular Member or by
a two-thirds majority of the National Committee.

\*\*Section 2: Notice\*\*

\- Proposed amendments must be communicated to all members at least 30
days before the vote.

\*\*Section 3: Adoption\*\*

\- Amendments require a two-thirds majority vote of the members present
at the National Convention or a designated voting period.

\### \*\*Article XI: Dissolution\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Procedure\*\*

\- The UPP may be dissolved by a three-fourths majority vote of the
National Committee and approval by the majority of state committees.

\*\*Section 2: Asset Distribution\*\*

\- Upon dissolution, all remaining assets shall be distributed to
organizations that align with the UPP's mission and values, as
determined by the National Committee.

\### \*\*Article XII: Miscellaneous Provisions\*\*

\*\*Section 1: Parliamentary Authority\*\*

\- The rules contained in \*\*Robert's Rules of Order\*\* shall govern
the UPP in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are
not inconsistent with these bylaws.

\*\*Section 2: Severability\*\*

\- If any provision of these bylaws is found to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall continue in full force and
effect.

\*\*Section 3: Adoption\*\*

\- These bylaws become effective upon approval by a majority vote of the
founding members at the initial National Convention.

\-\--

\## \*\*Appendices\*\*

\### \*\*Appendix A: Definitions\*\*

\- \*\*Regular Member\*\*: A member who actively participates in party
activities and holds voting rights.

\- \*\*Bylaws\*\*: The internal rules that govern the operation of the
UPP.

\- \*\*National Committee\*\*: The primary governing body of the UPP at
the national level.

\### \*\*Appendix B: Sample Forms\*\*

\- \*\*Membership Application Form\*\*

\- \*\*Nomination Petition Form\*\*

\- \*\*Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form\*\*

\### \*\*Appendix C: Additional Policies\*\*

\- \*\*Anti-Discrimination Policy\*\*

\- \*\*Data Privacy Policy\*\*

\- \*\*Volunteer Guidelines\*\*

\-\--

\## \*\*Conclusion\*\*

These bylaws provide a comprehensive framework for the governance and
operation of the United Progress Party. They ensure democratic
participation, transparency, accountability, and alignment with the
party's progressive values. Regular reviews and updates to the bylaws
will help the UPP adapt to changing circumstances and continue to
effectively advocate for its mission.

\-\--

\*\*Note:\*\* This is a foundational draft. It is recommended to consult
with legal experts and party members to tailor the bylaws further to the
specific needs and legal requirements of the United Progress Party.
